I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled this time we're
going to be taking a look at the 2011
film with the grey directed by joe
carnahan and starring Liam Neeson the
film was based on a short story entitled
ghost Walker by Ian McKenzie Jeffers who
also co-wrote the screenplay with
Carnahan the story focuses on a group of
oil workers who are left stranded in the
Alaskan wilderness when their plane
crashes Neeson plays John Otway who we
see at the beginning of the film killing
wolves the night before he is set to
board a plane with the other oil workers
from town he begins to attempt suicide
but hears the call of a wolf out in the
woods and has a change of heart we also
see him writing a letter to his wife
explaining his intentions to kill
himself and through flashback images of
happier times we get the impression that
his wife has left him nevertheless he
boards the plane as planned and it
crashes
[Music]
with the few survivors left after the
plane went down John asserts himself in
helping anyone that he can and leads the
group to survive his knowledge of wolves
comes in fairly useful as the survivors
are faced not only with the harsh
conditions of the cold but a pack of
nearby wolves that slowly but surely
stop picking people off it's a great
survival movie with stunning
cinematography and really strong
performances and honestly I think it's
one of the better films to really
showcase not only the theme of man
versus nature not only the more primal
idea of man versus beast but also
humanity's everlasting struggle with
mortality by the finale of the film John
is left completely alone after an
arduous and grueling journey the last
man standing he gathers together the
wallets of all the men who have died
carefully collecting them together to
somehow preserve some of those men's
essence their lives in a last-ditch
attempt to save the whole incident from
having been completely meaningless yet
he has wandered into the Wolves den and
is slowly surrounded by the pack as the
Alpha begins to move forward Jon
desperately prepares himself not for
flight but to fight in this moment we
get the reveal as John reflects on his
life the most important pieces of his
memory sitting as a young boy with his
father but also lying with his wife as
she's dying of an illness then we
understand that she didn't leave him but
that she passed away it adds a whole of
the twist for lack of a better word on
his mindset throughout the entire film
his desire to end his own life and in
this final scene his willingness to stay
and enter into a battle that will surely
result in his death he also puts his own
wallet on top of all of the others
placing a symbol of his life with the
souls of the dead knowing he is about to
face his own mortality he tapes a knife
to one hand and a few small bottles to
his other smashing off the ends he
recites a poem that his father had Wren
loosely inspired by a quote from
Shakespeare's Henry v once more unto the
breach dear friends once more or close
the wall up with our English dead in
remembering his father and the poem he
had written and framed on the wall
John recalls it aloud as the movie
reaches its end
[Music]
more into the fray
good fine
[Music]
it's a gut punch of a finale that
seemingly builds up to a climactic fight
between John and the alpha wolf but cuts
away before we see the action this
initially angered a lot of people test
audiences balked at the final shot
frustrated that they didn't get to see
the fight even the trailers of the movie
featured this final scene and in general
seem to be marketing the film as a Liam
Neeson fights wolves action movie now
while the film ends as the fight
seemingly begins there was a sequence
shot that depicted the deadly showdown
director joe carnahan had this to say
about the decision to not show the fight
between john and the wolf listen I'll
put it in the deleted scenes we did a
version where he fights the alpha and I
just thought the worst thing you could
do is get a movie that you feel like god
this movie really works and at the very
end you blow it because you want to show
a guy fighting a wolf you have to decide
for you is it a movie about a man living
and dying or is it a movie about a man
fighting a wolf because I think it is
incidental at least in my mind compared
to the great questions that it creates
in the end indeed the emotional climax
of the movie seems to come from John
placing his wallet amongst the others
accepting his fate and deciding to look
death in the face and fight it showing
that sequence would have been a push too
far into the ridiculous
as awesome as Liam Neeson fighting a
wolf may sound as I mentioned a sequence
was shot and despite joe carnahan wood
there was not a deleted scene on the
blu-ray depicting this fight however
there are shots from the various
trailers that show more after the final
shot of the film if we look at some of
these we can see john rushing towards
the wolf on his knees with blood running
down his face the wolf's biting him and
a split second shot of John's seeming to
stab the wolf we can even see in this
storyboard image that it was planned out
for John to stab the wolf also however
outside of trailer shots that didn't
make it into the final film we also have
the post-credits scene let's take a look
now in that scene we hear the breathing
of the wolf but not the breathing of
John though the wolf is in a prone
position so we can kind of imagine that
John might have managed to at least take
it down but John appears to be unmoving
perhaps dead the loser or perhaps
exhausted the victor you can really
decide for yourself though this behind
the scenes image could sway your
decision somewhat if you take a closer
look at it
overall I think it makes for an
incredibly effective ending to the film
that leaves me wanting but not in a bad
way the theme of being forced to face
your mortality by fighting and not
giving up is presented in a much more
powerful way where we leave it and if
that's not satisfying for you then the
post-credits scene at least offers some
kind of a resolution what did you make
of the ending of the grey did you like
it did you not like it be sure to let us
know in the comments down below and make
sure you subscribe to the Joe Blow
videos channel for more original content
like this and thanks for watching
[Music]